Edward Snowden can be seen on two sides of an ethical dillemma. The first is as a traitor to the U.S. Government. Snowden released many classified documents and it may not have been necessary to expose the amount of documents that he did just to prove the U.S. government's overreach. Many of these documents exposed the National Security Agency's methods and have potentially caused harm to U.S. citizens. Snowden can also been seen as someone who exposed to extent to which personal privacy has been breached by the government. This year, a federal court ruled that the US Intelligence's mass surveillance program was illegal and potentially unconstitutional. American citizens are supposed to be able to trust that their government is following its own laws, but Snowden showed that it wasn't.
In my spreadsheet, national security is of importance to the U.S. Government and its citizens. Snowden has potentially put many citizens in danger and has made it more difficult for the government to do its job. Personal privacy is of importance to all citizens of the world. The NSA wasn't just spying on US Citizens, it was spying on other countries too. People have a right to know if they are being spied upon and Snowden's leaks were the only way of proving what he knew to be true. Finally, the documents are important to internsational relations. The documents showed that the U.S. Government wasn't being honest to other governments. The United States had secretly spied on countries that were considered friendly. This breach of trust is unethical and potentially harms all citizens and governments of the world.
